---
tags: [permanent]
---

# Becoming a Magician Incrementally

## Two Approaches to Becoming Great

[[ignoring-your-path-to-become-a-magician]] is Autotranslucence’s method to becoming great—a [[magician]] in other words. She argues that becoming a magician requires an impossible jump sideways and forward. Building strategies today would be pure speculation as you are restricted by your current mental models. Instead, she suggests letting your subconscious do the job—once you have found your magician role models.

On the other hand, Steph Smith argues that building a [[habit-of-progression]] is the infallible secret to becoming great.

## Aligning Both Approaches

Both approaches have strong similarities. 

For Autotranslucence and Smith, the magician is the goal, it is the long-term vision. That’s the reason why that status may seem impossible and unattainable.

Contrarily, the [[habit-of-progression]] method only takes action in the short-term. This approach doesn’t give you a set life roadmap from A to Z. It focuses on small changes that you can integrate into your life to become better day by day.

The secret to becoming a magician might just be to build your path incrementally, with sideways and back steps along the way, but always with the end goal and vision in mind.

---
**WARNING: still WIP under this point**

---

Parallel with business approach:
- You need a business vision even though it may seem impossible / utopian.
- Not because vision seems impossible that you shouldn’t have a strategy for today. You need to align it with the vision.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[ignoring-your-path-to-become-a-magician]: ../3-literature/ignoring-your-path-to-become-a-magician "Ignoring Your Path to Become a Magician"
[magician]: ../3-literature/magician "Magician"
[habit-of-progression]: ../3-literature/habit-of-progression "Habit of Progression"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"