---
tags: [literature]
---

# Downsides of Separating Graphic and Information Design

When the term *information design* was first coined in the 1970s, graphic design and [[information-design]] were one and the same. Aesthetics of a visual came second and only existed to support the effective transmission of a message.

Nowadays, graphic design and information design are understood as two separate fields. Too often, aesthetics are nowadays prioritized over clarity.

## Examples

In 2012, the pharmacist trade magazine Kairenus did a survey. It showed that patient safety could be compromised on a weekly basis in 30% of pharmacies. Why? Because the packaging was too similar, as graphic designers were prioritizing brand consistency over clarity.&nbsp;<sup>1</sup>

Another example is the [Google icon rebranding in 2020](https://www.creativebloq.com/news/gmail-logo-google-workspace). The company reworked the icons of all its main services to be more aligned with its brand design. The result: a multicolored patchwork of abstract icons that are hard to differentiate from one another.

---
<sup>1</sup>&nbsp;From the [[§data-visualization-handbook-2020]], #needoriginalsource

Reference: [[§data-visualization-handbook-2020]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[information-design]: information-design "Information Design"
[§data-visualization-handbook-2020]: §data-visualization-handbook-2020 "Data Visualization Handbook (2020)"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"