---
tags: [literature]
---

# P.A.R.A. Method

The P.A.R.A. Method is a widely used organizational method created by [[tiago-forte]]. It stands for Projects—Areas of Responsibility—Resources—Archive.

## Projects

A project is a series of tasks that need to be completed to achieve a specific goal. It is bound in time and has a deadline.

*Examples of projects: create the Onboarding Guide, complete app mockup, write blog post.*

A project can be made of one or several tasks. In the “write blog post” example, tasks could be: *research topic, write first draft, SEO optimization, etc.*

## Areas of Responsibility

Whereas projects are bound in time, areas of responsibility have to be maintained indefinitely. They are broader goals that you commit to and can never be marked as “done”.

*Example of areas: Health, Finances, Personal Development, Become a better manager, etc.*

## Resources

Forte describes a resource as *“a topic or theme of ongoing interest”*.

*Examples of resources: habit formation, project management, transhumanism, coffee, etc.*

They are topics of articles, links, podcasts—well… resources—that you store in your bookmarks, to-read list or in any other means.

## Archive

The inactive items from the other three sections are placed in the archive.

---
Reference: [[§the-para-method-2017]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[tiago-forte]: tiago-forte "Tiago Forte"
[§the-para-method-2017]: §the-para-method-2017 "The PARA Method (2017)"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"