---
tags: [literature]
---

# Progressive Summarization

Progressive summarization is a note-taking technique created by [[tiago-forte]]. When creating notes from a source, its objective is to find the right balance between discoverability and understanding.

## Discoverability vs Understanding

If a note is easier to digest and compressed to its essential ideas, it will be more *discoverable*.

If a note has more complexity, context, examples and details, it will be more *understandable*.

## Note-Taking in 5 Layers

Progressive summarization can be done in 5 layers, each extracting the key ideas of a source a little more.
- Layer 1: full notes
- Layer 2: bold passages
- Layer 3: highlighted passages
- Layer 4: mini-summary
- Layer 5: remixing the content

The first layer is encompasses your full raw notes. They can be very detailed and understandable.

In the second layer, mark in bold key phrases or keywords that represent the core of the idea. No need to be too picky yet and go with your gut feelings.

In the third layer, highlight the “best of the best” from the previous bold passages. These are ideas that are unique and really speak to you.

The fourth layer consists of summarizing the key points of layers 2 and 3. This short summary should be in your own words.

The fifth and last layer only applies to the notes and ideas that you are the most excited about. You take them apart and remix them with your own experience and ideas to create something new and original.

---
Reference: [[§progressive-summarization-2017]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[tiago-forte]: tiago-forte "Tiago Forte"
[§progressive-summarization-2017]: §progressive-summarization-2017 "Progressive Summarization (2017)"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"