---
tags: [literature]
---

# The Nuclear Family as an Ideal Is a Myth

Our vision of the ideal family has drastically changed in the last century, going from extended family structures to the [[nuclear-family]].

On a global scale, the stable nuclear family is not be viable anymore. It could only exist within a set of special parameters from 1950–1965:
- Society encouraged women to stay at home, to take care of their children and their house. Childbearing was a very strong value.
- It was also a time of economical boom—at least in the United States. Men could have a single job that would earn enough income to support their families. 
- Neighborhood bonds and social connections were much stronger than today. Nuclear families were more intertwined and your neighbors could replace your extended family. 

Since the 1960s, these parameters have changed a lot:
- Marriage is not about childbearing anymore, but about adult fulfillment.
- Many women are not willing to stay at home anymore, values have shifted.
- Neighborhood communities are generally not as strong anymore. It is common not to know your neighbors.
- The nuclear family is not economically viable anymore. With both parents now at work, you need to hire someone else to take care of the kids and house. 

Trying to preserve the nuclear family model today doesn't make sense anymore. Only richer families that can afford to pay for house-keeping services–that was once shared among members of the extended family—can support that lifestyle.

---
Reference: [[§the-nuclear-family-was-a-mistake-2020]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[nuclear-family]: nuclear-family "Nuclear Family"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"