---
tags: [reference, article]
source: https://autotranslucence.wordpress.com/2018/03/30/becoming-a-magician/
author: Autotranslucence
publishingdate: 2018
dateretrieved: 2020-11-25
---

# Becoming a Magician (2018)

## Notes

- [[magician]]
  -  > And that, in fact, is my definition of magic – competence so much more advanced than yours with such alien mental models that you cannot predict the outcomes of the model at all.
     >
     > The way to extraordinary growth and changes often involves a fundamental ontological or ‘lens’ shift in how you see the world. Magicians are wearing not just better, but fundamentally differently shaped lenses to the rest of us. And regardless of your skills and experience, it is likely that you are a magician to someone else.
- Questions I like to ask myself include:
  - ‘What is the most capable version of me that I can imagine?’
  - ‘What would I be like/spend my time doing if all my current major problems had been solved?’
  - ‘What are the things I say I value but don’t act as if I value, and what would my life feel like on the inside if I actually acted as if I valued those things?’
  - ‘What am I afraid of doing, and what would my life be like if I wasn’t afraid of doing those things?’.
- Forgetting the best version of yourself to attain your goals [[ignoring-your-path-to-become-a-magician]]
  - > You can’t keep your gaze tightly fixed on the outcome you want because it will lock your mind onto the strategies you currently have for meeting them, which by definition probably don’t work (otherwise you would have succeeded already and you wouldn’t need to use the strategy).
  - As per definition, a magician has a completely different mental models from yours, you cannot focus on the strategies you can visualize today. 
- > So, in short, a helpful strategy for becoming a magician: Surround yourself with people who look like magicians to you. Then imagine yourself as one, older and wiser, in great detail. Imagine yourself as the person you would be afraid to say you want to be out loud to others (because it seems so ridiculously impossible right now). Write it down in great clarity and detail, then forget it. And let the part of your subconscious mind that still remembers lead you to becoming the things you want, and maybe, years later, check if it did.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[magician]: ../3-literature/magician "Magician"
[ignoring-your-path-to-become-a-magician]: ../3-literature/ignoring-your-path-to-become-a-magician "Ignoring Your Path to Become a Magician"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"