---
tags: [reference, article]
source: https://blog.stephsmith.io/how-to-be-great/
author: Steph Smith
publishingdate: 2020
dateretrieved: 2020-11-23
---

# How to Be Great? Just Be Good, Repeatably (2020)

## Notes

- Inputs => Outputs
  - Continuous effort leads to greatness when the following statements are true:
    - Inputs are consistent over time
    - Intentional inputs lead to expected outputs
- There are ups and downs
  - > With the ups, there are always downs. This seems obvious, but we often forget this when we are in periods of down. We quit at these local minimums […], because we cannot see the next peak right around the corner. 
- [[polymath-as-an-excuse]]?
  - > It’s easy to pivot from side project to side project, focusing on the new shiny object of the month.
- Establish a [[habit-of-progression]], but in the right direction
  - Habit of progression = consistently be good / decent
  - Input => Outputs, but are the inputs producing the outputs you want?
    - > Being consistent with something leading you in the wrong direction, will unsurprisingly lead you in the wrong direction.
    - Example: Getting a degree you don’t really want…
  - Find the right habit by intentionally testing out more inputs => outputs, iterate monthly / weekly.
  - Ask yourself the question: “If I were to continue this every day for the next year, would I be in a better place?”
- [[§becoming-a-magician-2018]]
  - You cannot imagine how to become a magician.
- [[stop-speculating-about-what-is-best]], don’t try to be perfect
  - Do not try to be perfect at your first shot.
  - In *Atomic Habits* by James Clear, he describes a study with two groups of photographers in a photo competition. The first group would be judged solely on the numbers of photographs submitted, while the second would be judged on the excellence of a single image. The best pictures were actually taken by the “quantity group”.
  - > The “search” for greatness is often misguided, perhaps because what we imagine to be great, is in fact not that great at all.
- > In being consistent over time, you become the outlier. 

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[polymath-as-an-excuse]: ../4-permanent/polymath-as-an-excuse "Polymath as an Excuse"
[habit-of-progression]: ../3-literature/habit-of-progression "Habit of Progression"
[§becoming-a-magician-2018]: §becoming-a-magician-2018 "Becoming a Magician (2018)"
[stop-speculating-about-what-is-best]: ../3-literature/stop-speculating-about-what-is-best "Stop Speculating About What Is Best"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"