---
tags: [reference, podcast]
source: https://hopeinsource.com/process/
author: [Henry Zhu, Maggie Appleton]
publishingdate: 2020
dateretrieved: 2020-11-29
---

# Technology as Process (2020)

## Technology is Dynamic

- Today, technology is synonym to digital / computing only 
  - From [[§how-technology-grows-2018]]
- About the [[decaying-web]]
  - Today, we cannot really tell the age of websites anymore. We can sometimes say by its design only. What of you completely update it? We are losing context (vs. physical objects get old)
  - What about an auto-decaying web?
  - > If we, if we take it a bit more seriously, In gardens, plants die, or you eat them, you know, and your blog posts notes never die, but wouldn’t that be interesting if, if you don’t touch it for five years, it like fades off. Or maybe if other people don’t touch it. Cause there’s something about if someone else’s still getting value from it, through search engines or Twitter, maybe it stays alive, but the things that aren’t picked up just fade away. — M. Appleton
- We are searching for immortality: physical and digital
  - > We try really hard to embrace this idea of limitless and maybe that is reflected in our pursuit of never dying. — Henry Zhu
  - Our need to track and save everything on the cloud = need to live forever?

 ## Protestant work ethic

- [[§the-protestant-ethic-and-the-spirit-of-capitalism-1905]] by Max Weber in 1905
  - In short: [[§protestant-work-ethic-lead-to-capitalism]] belief in hard work and frugality shaped the western world and might have lead to capitalism
  - Hard work + unwilling to spend => you do well financially
- Today: you *need* to have a job = your value as a person
  - Value in working hard, indulgence = bad
- Even in self help => building habits (= hard work!)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[§how-technology-grows-2018]: §how-technology-grows-2018 "How Technology Grows (2018)"
[decaying-web]: ../3-literature/decaying-web "Decaying Web"
[§the-protestant-ethic-and-the-spirit-of-capitalism-1905]: §the-protestant-ethic-and-the-spirit-of-capitalism-1905 "The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism (1905)"
[§protestant-work-ethic-lead-to-capitalism]: §protestant-work-ethic-lead-to-capitalism "Protestant Work Ethic Lead to Capitalism"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"